--- 
layout: post 
title: Accept More Responsibility to Gain Power
date: 2020-09-03 11:57
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /myfault/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
During my first job, my first boss encouraged me to write down my goals and read all the books.

"I am allowed to continue my education outside of college," he encouraged me.

A senior manager for a company I was working for became interested in mentoring me.

Every now and then, he'd treat me to lunch and give me advice.

One of the pieces of advice that stuck to me is:

Everything that happens to you is your responsibility.

This is especially true when you become a manager.

I know what you're thinking.

What if you got caught by surprise?

What if you encountered a problem that you're not expecting?

As a manager, that failure is still YOUR FAULT.

The job of a manager is to find possible causes of failure and prepare for them.

"90% of your time outside of the office involves considering the worst case scenario and coming up with a defense or solution," my boss continued.

### Notes
In Dr. Stephen Covey's 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, the lesson about the first habit is:

Proactive living is believing that the results of your life follow this formula:

 10% of my life is caused by my situation  (outside factors)
 90% of  my life is how I respond to my situation (me)
 100% results.

Reactive living is believing that the results of your life follow this formula: 

 90% of life is caused by my situation  (outside factors)
 10% of life is how I respond to my situation (me)
 100% results.

Many winners and people holding positions of power follow a proactive living and many losers follow a reactive living formula.

### Activity:

Make a list of the most painful events that you experienced in your life.

Select the most painful event.

How is that event your fault?

In what ways have you contributed to that terrible situation?

What lesson can you learn from that painful event?

How can overcoming that event make you a better person?

Answer these questions in your journal.

Repeat this exercise to as many painful events as you can manage.