--- 
layout: post 
title: Big Five Personality Test - Challenge Activity
date: 2019-08-10 18:05
Tags: [ activity, blog ]
permalink: /big-five/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
This test helps understand your self.

You can learn about some of your strengths that will allow you to move forward with your career.

More importantly, you can use the traits for your job application.

You also learn about positive patterns that make you stronger and negative patterns that make you weaker.

[Here's a link to my results](https://kevinolega.com/big5/).

This test measures five basic traits: Agreeableness, Extroversion, Neuroticism, Conscientiousness, and Openness to experience, with each of those traits having two supporting elements.

## What about you?

[CLICK HERE TO TAKE THE BIG 5 PERSONALITY TEST](https://www.truity.com/test/big-five-personality-test).

You may take the [paid version of the test here](https://www.understandmyself.com/).

Write the answer on your journal.

If you haven't already, [please do this initial activity](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/big5).

With that in mind, let's begin!

## Exploring Your Strengths

Next.

Do another Google Search.

Ask this question.

## What are positive traits of each my dominant personality traits?

Select ten positive traits that apply to you and write the details on your journal.

Next question.

## What are the negative traits of each of my personality traits?

Select five negative traits and write the details on your journal.

## TAKING OWNERSHIP OF YOUR STRENGTHS AND CONFRONTING YOUR WEAKNESS

Go back and review the answers.

Among the ten positive traits that you discovered about yourself, write a short example of why you think that positive trait applies to you.

You can talk about an event where you realized you had this positive trait or somebody else told you that you had this trait. 

Share what happened.

Try to keep your answers within 3-5 sentences.

## TAKING OWNERSHIP OF YOUR FAULTS.

Among the five negative traits that you discovered about yourself, write a short example of why you think that negative trait applies to you.

Next.

Talk about an event where you realized you had this negative trait or talk about an event where somebody else told you that you had this negative trait. 

Share what happened.

Try to keep your answers within 3-5 sentences.

## What are you doing to overcome your weakness?

If you haven't started working on the problem already, what do you think is the best way to overcome that weakness?

## CHALLENGE ACTIVITY - Part 1

Invite a friend to take the Big Five Personality test.

Encourage your friend to write their score and share their results.

Discuss the results and what you learned about your personality.

Ask your friend about what they learned about their personality.

Share some of the strengths that you discovered as well as the related accomplishments.

Share some of the weakness that you discovered as well as the strategies you put in place to overcome your weakness.

Encourage your friend to write the same ideas and discuss your answers.

Get more friends to take the Big Five Personality Test.

## CHALLENGE ACTIVITY - Part 2

Imagine yourself in this situation.

You joined a contest.

You are introduced to another person with the exact same strengths and weakness as yourself.

The person has exactly the same problems that you have.

You are supposed to give that other person life advice.

The other person needs to overcome his or her problems.

The prize if you win is ₱50,000.

What advice will you give?

Give clear step-by-step instructions.

Tell a story that gives inspirational advice.

How will you coach the contestant?


