--- 
layout: post 
title: Dangers of Copying Interview Answers From The Internet
date: 2019-08-10 15:21
Tags: [ activity, blog ]
permalink: /copycat/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
It's not a good idea to copy interview answers.

When I coach people on how to get hired in a call center, I help them discover their strengths and create their own interview answers.

We build a strong story on why the call center should hire them based on their own personal experience.

If the story is based on your own, then you have the ability to answer the follow up questions easily.

You will become 100% more confident.

The interviewer is not stupid.

The interviewer expects you to say nice things about yourself.

In some situations, the interviewer is expecting you to lie to get a job and is fully aware that we need to look past the flowery words.

The interviewer will verify your answers by asking follow up questions.

And if you are making things up, then you are DEAD when you're asked the follow up questions.

But even if you've had some practice, you might experience self-doubt, hesitate, fumble for words and as a result, will give the interviewer the impression that YOU ARE LYING.

The interviewer is not just listening to your words.

The interviewer is also watching your body language.

The interviewer is taking notes on what you said and will investigate that further with the next questions.

The best way to get around this is obstacle is by speaking the truth.

In my coaching sessions, I help my students prepare stories and answers to follow up questions.

I can't coach everyone.

So here are examples of how copying interview answers can go wrong for job applicants.

And how you can prepare for it.

You can consider this questions and try answering on your journal.

## I am hardworking.

Can you give me an example of a situation where you were hardworking?

Can you share an experience from work or at home and you are almost done with your responsibilities and you suddenly discovered that you had more work to do?

## I am patient.

Can you give me an example of a situation where you were patient?

Can you share an experience where you had to deal with a difficult family member or stranger?

## I am responsible.

Can you give me an example of a situation where you were patient?

Can you share an experience where you had a party to got to and you're really excited to go, but your work required you to extend your hours and do some work and potentially miss your party? What did you do in those situations and what happened next?

## I am disciplined.

Can you give me an example of a situation where you were patient?

Can you share an experience where you had a do something that you didn't really want to do? What did you do in that situations and what happened next?

## I am diligent.

Can you give me an example of a situation where you were diligent?

Tell me a story about a time where you had to make sure that you took care of really important details or you were responsible for a very important duty.

## I am a people person.

Tell me a story about a time when you had to deal with a difficult person whether its a customer or a family member or a difficult group mate in school.

Tell me a story about a time where you were asking for support from friends and family whether you were getting help or selling something.

## I am punctual.

What steps do you do to stay punctual?

If you're on your way to work and you left the house early and you got stuck because of an unforeseen event, what will you do?

## I love challenges.

Please give me examples of different challenges that you have faced in your previous job.

Please give me examples of different life challenges that you have experienced and overcome.

What is your attitude when facing life's challenges.

## I spend my free time reading books.

What were the last two or three books did you finish reading?

What did you enjoy about those books?

What is the summary of the story so far?

What lessons did you learn from the book that you just finished reading?

## I love watching movies

What's the last movie that you saw?

What is the story of that movie?

What do you like about the movie?

What do you hate about the movie?

## I am passionate

Please give examples of your passion?

What positive benefit will a company benefit from your passion?

I'll come back and update this with more examples.

The main objective of the follow up questions is they want proof that you are who you say you are.

That's why I begin my coaching with a writing activity that allows the student to write down different stories about their life that will be used to connect with the interviewer and why it is a good decision to hire you as an agent. 

More for later:

## Professional
## Good Communication
## Flexibility
## Team Player
## Determined
