--- 
layout: page 
title: Six Week English Lessons
date: 2019-08-31 13:00
Tags: [ CTA, blog ]
permalink: /6WEL250/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
We offer a six week English learning program where you can study with us from any location at your availability.

## Our offer in fifteen seconds:

Our basic program for Six Week English Lessons

- It only costs a one-time payment of Php 250. 
- This includes 42 lessons and
- six phone coaching sessions 
- delivered over a six week period.

## Why is this affordable?

We deliver the lessons via email and phone coaching to make the learning experience accessible and affordable.

## This is not like any program you've seen.

When you enroll, it's not a situation where you just pay us, and you only read lessons.

You get the 42 lessons and activities to give you the opportunity to practice your communication skills and, as a result, develop your grammar, pronunciation, and confidence for BPO work and job interviews.

## How can writing help me?

We send the writing activities via email at 9am every day for six weeks.

The daily writing activities are designed to be completed in 30 minutes to improve your grammar so you can be confident during interviews and make you familiar with customer service, sales, email as well as everyday professional conversations.

You can send back your answers anytime within the week before your phone coaching.

## How can you help me with my pronunciation?

Once a week, I'll call you to discuss your answers to the writing activities and to help you with your pronunciation.

The phone coaching sessions may last from 20 minutes to an hour. 

We schedule the coaching from Friday to Monday.

## What's the catch?

The main reason we are offering the lessons for really cheap is we want your endorsement for our future clients.

We want you to do the activities, get better at speaking in English, and tell other people that you got better because you took our lessons.

In other words, we want your testimonial and success story.

## How to Enroll?

After making the payment, please send us the confirmation.

Please send us your:

1. Email address
2. Complete Name
3. Phone Number for the weekly coaching calls.
4. Best time to call. 

Options are Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. 

Let me know if a different day/time is better for you.

If you are outside the Philippines, please send us your Skype/Viber instead.

Please get yourself a large notebook and pen for writing activities.

Please remember that we will be sending lessons every day, including weekends, for your practice.

Once a week, we will call you so we can coach you on your pronunciation and cover questions as well as discuss your answers.

Our GCash number is 09178952637

The early bird price to enroll is Php 250.

The 250 is only a one-time payment.

We accept payment through GCash, PayMaya, and bank deposit to BPI.

Send us a message to enroll.

[CLICK HERE TO ENROLL](https://www.facebook.com/callcentertrainingtips/)

## Fill Out This Enrollment Form

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdn6vfz102fu-8EWujKovZfjjrefRFa8xfiSQR8iPAwX5LLFg/viewform?embedded=true" width="640" height="1928" frameborder="0" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0">Loading…</iframe>