--- 
layout: page
title: 6WC1
date: 2021-01-30 02:48
permalink: /6webc1/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
**WHAT I WANT YOU TO LEARN**

Most of my students have two to a maximum of five errors per activity.

Many of the errors are repetitive.

You'll find the same errors in the future exercises.

Our goal is to fix a few errors per session.

One error isn't just one error.

Each error we fix won't be a problem for the rest of your life.

We'll fix anywhere from six to thirty errors during the coaching session.

## LESSON 1

This exercise is an assessment of how well you introduce yourself.

This is important for both work and personal conversations.

Bonus: Write 15 interesting facts about you.

## LESSON 2

This exercise is intended to give you ideas on how to introduce yourself if you're stuck.

## LESSON 3

This exercise is intended to give you instructions.

I tell my students that 90% of call center work is asking questions.

90% of what happens after you ask questions is giving instuctions.

### For Call Center Work:

1. Customer service. Give instructions on how to pay, find details on the bill, how to submit a request, etc.
2. Tech support. Give instructions on how to repair or troubleshoot a tech product or service.
3. Sales. Give instructions on how to decide on buying. Give instructions on how to buy or how to order.

### For Non-Call Center Work:

1. Supervisors and Managers are judged based on how well they give instructions.
2. Teachers and coaches are instructors.
3. Business owners give instructors to supervisors and managers. This is called delegation.

### Potential Interview Questions

This is the main reason why people are asked to describe a random color to a blind person.

This is the reason why interviewers ask call center applicants to describe their commute going to the interview.

### Other Benefits

Learning to give instructions can make or break your job application.

Giving instructions can also determine how fast you get promoted.

Your ability to give instructions can also dictate how well you build your relationship with your loved ones.

### Additional Tips About Giving Instructions

1. Your instructions need to be specific.
2. You need to add as much details as possible.
3. You need to give your instructions  the other person can follow.
4. Consider the following:
	- What is the name of the street that you're on?
	- What are the landmarks?
	- What will you be riding?
	- What will you tell the driver?
	- Where will you get off?

### Upgrade Your Instructions

My favorite places to learn instructions:

1. Watching cooking shows and cooking guides.
2. Watching video tutorials of computer repair and computer how-to videos.
3. Watching exercise tutorials of CrossFit coaches and athletes.
4. Watching drawing tutorials.
5. Watching 
6. Watching Martial Arts tutorials.

I often find myself paying attention to how the instructor gives intstructions.

I do my best to incorporate the good practices into how I give my instructions.

## LESSON 4

Telling stories are one of the most important skills.

The first benefit of telling stories is it allows you to connect with other people.

We decide if we like or dislike a person based on their stories.

Potential employers, customers, friends and romantic partners judge you based on your stories.

83% of people that I meet decline the opportunity to tell their stories.

As a consequence, nobody picks them for anything.

People like people who are like them.

Use your story to tell the other person that you are a person just like themselves.

Use your story to connect.

I'll share more important details about stories in the next lesson. 

## Recap

What errors do you need to fix?

What changes will you apply in the next exercises?

Discuss:

## LESSON 5

On the next lesson, I'll give you more pronunciation exercises.

## LESSON 6

One sentence paragraph format.

This practice changed my life.

## LESSON 7


Activity Part 1.

Activity Part 2

Activity Part 3

Are you talking about what you've done or are you talking about promises?

## Error Index

Capitalization

Punctuation

Basic spelling errors.

Missing words from sentences (the, and, to)

Incomplete sentences. 

Incomplete thoughts.

Incomplete details.

Shortcut words. Coz instead of because.

Making promises instead of showing proof.

In, on, at.

To and For

And, Or, But, Because, at the start of the sentence.

Honestly, actually, to be honest.

Not reading the work carefully.

Not using spelling and grammar tools. 

Use First Person.

Long sentences.

Poor shortening. 

I left the sentence incomplete.


