--- 
layout: post 
title: WHAT CAN I LEARN FROM A W1L6
date: 2021-03-29 03:35
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /w1l6-feedback/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
I asked my student to write 20 sentences what she learned in Week 1 Lesson 6.

Here's her answer:

I learned not to use unnecessary words. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I learned not to use redundant words or phrases. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I learned not to use unspecific words. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I learned to be more specific in writing a sentence. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

You can remove unspecific words. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Even without an unspecific word the sentence still has complete thought. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Being specific in writing is easier to understand. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Being specific will not confuse my reader. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Being direct will have a greater impact on the reader. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Being  direct improves my communication skills. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Being specific is a great strategy to inspire and influence readers. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I can explain my thoughts better. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I can say exactly what I wanted to say. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Using precise words increases the clarity of your sentences. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

You can choose more precise words to replace unspecific words. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

You can't avoid using unspecific words but be specific as often as you can. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I learned to check my sentences if I am using unspecific words. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

I learned not to put multiple ideas in a sentence. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

Using what I learned improves my writing skills. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

My sentences become easier to understand. THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY.

The score for this activity was 20/20.

I add the words THIS SENTENCE IS OKAY. to help speed up checking answers.