---
layout: post
title: Welcome to Call Center Training Tips
date: 2012-06-15 19:13
author: Kevin Olega
description: I started helping friends get hired in a call center then lots of people asked me to teach them, I wrote this site so they can read the lessons for free.
permalink: /welcome/
comments: true
categories: [Announcements]
---

This website started in July 15, 2012.

I'm Kevin Olega.

In 2005, I was one of the first people in my circle of friends who have experience in a call center. 

I helped a handful of my friends get hired in a call center.

We go to Ortigas and Makati together.

I teach them about interview questions.

I look for errors in their English.

We practice the corrections until they get it right.

The process takes two to four hours. 

They go up to a call center company and fail.

We try again.

They fail again.

On the fourth or fifth attempt, they come back with a large grin and they tell me that they passed the final interview.

We celebrate with drinks.

I've done this for over a dozen friends to earn a reputation of helping people get hired in a call center.

I later worked for a call center training school.

I teach a thousand more people.

Call center school closes down.

People continue to ask me.

I then have a job, a girlfriend and little time to spend, I decided to put the lessons in a website. 

The website is named Call Center Training Tips because it's call center tips based on my experience training people and working in a call center training school.

Fellow writer Sheenah Tan who I met on the internet had helped me name this website.

My friends who are I have helped get employed in a call center had advanced to their dream careers and businesses and had rewarded me with opportunities that had helped me land my dream career as well.

That is my story.

Today is Wednesday, March 28, 2018.

I am rewriting this website.

I'm putting topics together to make this organized.

I'm also removing several pages to make going through this website simpler.

At the time of this writing, the website has 10k monthly visits and 7k followers on Facebook. Not that it matters years from now.

I'm just interested in helping people get work and I enjoy receiving gifts and money from strangers on the internet.

Again, welcome to Call Center Training Tips and thank you for reading.


### Before you ask for free support...


Each of my lessons are available on my website http://callcentertrainingtips.com free of charge. 

All you have to do is to read it and practice.

Call center training tips is a website I put up to assist my friends who would like to work in a call center but need help preparing for their interviews.

Eventually, I added stories about difficulties that I encountered and how I overcame each one. 

I also tried to answer as many questions as I can think of.

As the site got popular, I got several thank you messages from my readers, encouraging me to write more. 

Some offered to hire me and some gave me free stuff. 

Some donated money and some promoted my site. 

As a result, I thought about other ways I can assist my readers.

I'm recording myself on video and audio for additional free practice material for my readers.

Despite hating Facebook because I don't have good discipline and spend way more time on facebook than I'd like, I opened a facebook page to answer questions every time I'm online. 

I also answer specific questions in the comments section and on email.

I sell books and online courses for a few hundred pesos to help pay for my website's hosting and other expenses related to maintaining the website. 

This is not my full-time business. 

I have a full-time job. 

I use this platform to help others and I charge fees to help pay for my costs.

Before you ask me for free support, please keep in mind that I already spent hundreds of hours building the site for you. 

All you have to do is to read it. 

Test the lessons on yourself. 

Let me know what worked for you and send me a message or something to eat.

Sincerely,

Kevin Olega webmaster of callcentertrainingtips.com

