---
layout: post
title: '27 Tips to Help You Get Hired In a Call Center'
date: 2012-10-22 11:28
author: Kevin Olega
comments: true
categories: [Lessons]
---
Last Friday was my birthday. 

I turned 27. 

This year, I'm writing 27 tips on each of [my topic specific websites](http://kevinolega.com). 

Here are 27 tips to help you get hired in a call center. 

I suggest you pick one or two tips and try it out until it is a part of you.

Come back to this lesson to learn more and get better.

**1. Smile** 

A smile can be heard over the phone. 

How the heck is that? 

You sound better when you smile. 

You also look better if you smile. 

Smile a lot. 

Especially in difficult situations.

**2. Listen well** 

When you get hired, your job will be to listen to client concerns, process requests and recommend solutions to problems. 

Your listening skills will influence your answers. 

If you misunderstood the instruction or question that will mean that your next action or recommendation might not be the right one. 

Learn to listen.


**3. Pay attention** 

When you're at your interview be one hundred percent there. 

You are at the location doing what you need to do. 

You’ll need to pay attention to detail and think of the best way to communicate your solutions. 

Don't think much of other things.


**4. Pray** 

If you're worried about other things. 

Pray about it and be able to put it down so you can be present at your job interview. 

The Creator of the universe is taking care of you so no need to distract yourself with things you worry about. 

You can also ask Him for help, guidance, wisdom, protection and anything you need. 

Just be confident.

**5. Be friendly**  

I made a lot of friends when I look for work. 

I made a friend in the reception area, the waiting area, the smoking area, and the interview room. 

Making friends can get you an incredible amount of useful tips from where to go and where to apply to next.

**6. It's okay to fail** 

Failure is a better teacher than success. 

Failure teaches you how to approach the situation better. 

When you fail, learn your lesson and don't suffer. 

When you fail, always ask yourself where is the lesson in this failure? 

What can I learn to come back better?

**7. Do something until you're comfortable with it** 

I hear a lot of comments like I'm not used to speaking straight English or I'm not used to speaking to other people. 

That’s the point. 

You don’t do well because you’re not comfortable. 

As with almost any skill that I know of, you do things well when you are comfortable and you get comfortable with something after doing it a lot of times. 

Do it until you're comfortable doing it.

**8. If you have problems with your P and F or B and V or I and E switch them.** 

I've talked to a lot of people who mispronounce them. 

Their e's are i's and their p's are f's and b's are v's. 

But here's the thing they got both right but are pronouncing it at opposite times. 

Just practice doing the opposite. 

Switch them.

**9. Twenty's end T is almost silent.** 

It sounds more like “tweny” than TwenTy.

**10. Thirty's sound like thirdy.**

**11. International sounds like “innernational”.** 

Same goes for internet. It's “innernet.”

**12. Do you sound like yaya?** 

No offense to yaya’s and provincial accent. 

Ask yourself. 

How do I sound. 

Do I sound like yaya? No? Awesome! Yes? Uhhmmm. 

Change it. 

Sound better. 

You won't get hired if you sound like yaya.

**13. Think in English** 

I alredy talked about this a lot. 

Practice thinking in English so you can speak better faster.

**14. Sound sossy.** 

I know you know how to. 

You mock them when you hear them. 

You hear Kris Aquino on TV everyday. 

Talk like that.

**15. Imagine yourself as your favorite English Speaking celebrity.** 

Maybe you don't like Kris Aquino. 

Me too. 

So try speaking like your favorite English speaking celebrity. 

It can be anyone.

**16. You're more awesome than that celebrity.** 

Seriously. 

You have something better to offer. 

I sincerely believe that.

**17. Be comfortable.** 

If you've been to a lot of interviews you'll notice that you'll be more comfortable going to each interview. 

That's a good thing. 

In a little while you'll get hired in a call center and you'll spend nine hours a day there. 

You will talk to the people there regularly. 

So learn to be comfortable.

**18.** It might be the hardest thing you'll ever do but **it's easier than you think.** 

There was a time when I felt it was really hard to look for work. 

Then I got hired and everything was easy.

**19.** **Make friends with your interviewer.** 

Yes you heard that right. 

Your new interviewer friend can help you get hired there or somewhere else. 

Be nice and friendly by making a connection and looking for common ground.

**20. End your answers with statements that make them ask you more questions** 

Just share something interesting. 

A story or something that you did (that’s related to the question or the work).

**21. End your answers with questions about the work.**

Yes it's okay to ask questions. 

Questions make you interesting. 

Questions put the conversation to your advantage. 

Questions grant you information.

**22.** If I get hired what will be my schedule? 

Then discuss how you’ll be able to work on that. 

I’d say something like, Oh, so if I’ll start by nine pm I’ll have to start my day at six pm and leave the house at eight since the travel time is much less then.

**23.** I understand that the environment is different in each company, what is it like working here?

**24.** Did you try working as an agent as well? If so can you tell me about your experience?

**25.** It will be my first time to work as a call center agent. 

What are the most common challenges I’ll face once I start working? 

Listen to answers and discuss your ideas on how to move forward despite having those challenges.

**26. Smile.**

I'd like to clarify. 

Rephrase the question. 

My answer to "Insert original question" then give the answer. 

I use this to stall. 

I don’t use it often but whenever my interviewer throws me a question I’m not prepared for, I use this technique to buy me time.

**27. Be confident.** 

You just read a really long lesson on improving yourself. 

I'm so proud of you. 

Fist bump. 

We're almost at the end and I have to tell you that you can do it and I want to hear from you when you get hired. 

I also expect pizza or wine as a gift.

**Bonus tip** If you send me an email or leave a comment I'll help you get hired in a call center by answering your questions.
