---
layout: post
title: How To Set Goals
date: 2016-01-29 03:45
author: Kevin Olega
comments: true
categories: [Activity, agent, Applicant, Lessons]
---
Early in my career, I learned that people who set goals were a lot more successful than people who don't set goals. 

It makes sense. 

When we want to go out for a meal, since we don't have a target place to eat to, we spend hours driving around looking for a place to eat. 

I feel it particularly with my share of the gas bill. 

It's been ten years since I started working. 

If you set your goals, you know what you are looking for and it's easier to spot.

## If you have goals set.

1. Know what you're looking for.
2. Know what you need to prepare in advance.
3. Recognize opportunities to achieve your goals.
4. Get more goals accomplished.

Having goals in life is like going to a "bring me" game knowing full the list of things they want you to bring before it's called.

## If you have no goals set.

1. Spend lots of time trying to figure out what you want to do.
2. Miss opportunities because you are not prepared.
3. Opportunities are often vague and left unused.
4. Get little or none accomplished because you don't know what you're doing.

## That said I'll teach you how to set goals.

**1. Get a pen and paper.**

**2. Write your goals in large fonts.** 

There's a certain confidence from writing in large fonts. 

Check out [my article on the Minimal Changes Website.](https://minimalchanges.com/how-to-increase-your-confidence-by-writing-big/)

**3. Look at your goal for 30 seconds.** 

Check for spelling errors.

**4. While imagining your goal smile and take deep breaths.** 

So you can use your creative part of your brain.

**5. Add as much detail as you can.** 

Specifics. 

What? 

Where? 

How? 

How many? 

And so on.

**6. Write down 10 ideas on how to achieve your goals or move your goal forward.**

**7. Be flexible with the method.** 

If method 1 doesn't work. 

Try method 2 until you hit method 10.

**8. Keep your old list of goals.** 

It reminds you of what you accomplished and what you haven't done yet.

**9. It's okay to change.** 

Some goals don't get worked on because it's not important to you anymore. 

When you don't have something like say a car or an iPhone, I just assume it's not important to you because you didn't work on it. 

I just presume you worked on something else and achieved that instead.

**10. Pray about your goals.** 

It's easy to grind through the tasks when you feel that the creator of the universe is on your side and assisting you.

**11. Take the smallest step then take another step.** 

Goals take time building a house requires more than 200 nails and more than a hundred bricks or plywood. 

Many people tell me "I quit! This is hard! Motherfucker!" after reading two lessons from my website. 

Well "Fuck You!!" It takes longer for me to write it, encode it, spend money to publish it on the internet than you to read it, try it and you can get a job and money and the success other people only pray about and dream of your piece of shit. 

I use my rest days and free time you ungrateful fuck. 

I have a site with about 200 lessons. 

I built it 1 post a week over the past few years. 

Big goals take more time because you need more parts to collect and assemble.

**12. Goals take time.** 

As I've said. 

Big goals take more time because you need more parts to collect and assemble. 

You build it part by part and over time the small things you do add up and you have what you need to get to the next step and without you noticing you have achieved your goal. 

If your goal is to go to Baguio and even if you're just walking if you put one foot in front of the other, eventually you'll get there.

I've tried this goal thing for 10 years and I've achieved 80% of all the things that I want in life. 

Some people would say that's a lot of trouble for just 80% shouldn't it be 100%. Well, I don't know you dumb fuck. 

Pulling out a piece of paper and drawing out a plan and thinking of the best approach before spending my time doing something and get 8 out of 10 things ain't such a bad idea.

This is the most important things you can do in your life. 

You'll know this maybe ten years from now. You're welcome.

## 12 Tips on How To Set Goals

This website is originally intended to assist shy people in getting hired in a call center. 

I started writing about interview skills, communication skills, job hunting skills, resume writing skills and the like.

I feel that what I haven't given to my readers is a detailed description of life skills that made me hire-able despite my disadvantages.

My goal is to equip you with the skills and confidence to compete with others and if that means I'll share all my secrets then so be it. 

Here goes.

On a forum, somebody asked. 

Does my school matter in looking for a job? 

Many people have different opinions. 

I posted my response.

People who took their studies with high end or top schools are exposed to certain activities that prepare them to be successful at what they do.

One of the activities I will share is about goal setting. 

In a lot of situations, we don't know the future. 

We can't predict our situation, but we can decide on our direction. 

A lot of us live our lives just waiting for things to happen.

We follow the Hunger Games saying to heart "May the odds be ever in your favor." 

We wish luck would play a part.

When our boss ask us for our agenda or objective. 

We respond with.

**1. Ayoko mag commit.** 

Baka hindi din mangyari. 

In English, I don't want to set goals because I might not achieve them.

**2. Wag mo pansinin baka mabati.** 

In English, "Don't compliment me, you might jinx my good fortune"

We are afraid of commitment. 

We are afraid of failure. 

We are afraid of looking stupid or foolish. 

In Tagalog "Mag mukhang tanga."

In a study done several decades ago. 

A group of people were asked if they practiced writing down goals. 

In the said group half did and half did not. 

Decades later the same group were tracked on their accomplishments. 

I have no idea how they did it. 

It turns out that the group who wrote down the goals are more successful.

Let me say that again. 

The people who wrote down their goals are more successful than those who did not.

I want you to switch. 

I want you to be intentional. 

I want you to take control over the only part of your life that you have control of.

**1. Get a pen and paper** 

A goal is not a goal if it's not on paper. 

Putting things to paper is commitment. 

Getting married is not just the I do but the contract signing at the end. 

**2. Write down your goals in large fonts**. 

I feel confident writing in large fonts. 

I also feel that my mind is more engaged. 

I noticed that a lot of CEO's and effective sales guys write in large fonts. 

It feels badass. 

Try it. 

**3. Look at your goal for 30 seconds.** 

Just look at it. 

Is this what I want? 

How does this make me feel? 

Baka naman goal ng mommy ko to? 

In English "Maybe this is my mom's goal" You'll naturally imagine your goal in this step.

**4. While imagining your goal, smile and take deep breaths.**

Some goals are breathtaking so start taking deep breaths. 

Doing so actually pumps oxygen into your brain and activates creativity. 

Some goals are so big they can be intimidating. 

Smiling enables playfulness, creativity and courage. 

Go ahead take deep breaths and smile. 

**5. Add as much detail to your goal as possible.** 
 
This is not in essay format. 

Just add details of things that you'd like to include in your goals. 

The more specific you are the more ideas you can put together to achieve your goal. 

**6. Write down ten ideas on how to achieve your goal.**
 
Don't stop with the goal. 

Write down things you can do. 

When I needed money to go to Malaysia, I wrote down a list of how I can put the money together and the people I can ask for help. 

Write down as many steps as you can. 

More than ten whenever you do so. 

Some steps will not work. 

You'll need back up plans and ideas.

**7. Be flexible with the method of achieving your goal.**

As I've said, some methods won't work. 

You'll need to learn to adapt and try something else. 

There are many paths to achieve a goal. 

If you want to eat, you can cook, buy food, call a delivery, ask someone for food and so on. 

Don't be obsessed on the method. 

Just ask yourself. 

Does it work? 

Yes? 

Keep doing it. 

Does this work? 

No? 

What else can I try. 

**8. Keep your old list of goals**.

 You'll be surprised at how many goals you can achieve over time. 

 I've been writing my goals for almost ten years. 

 I have achieved many of them over time. 

 Like 80%. 

 Amazing? 

 Badass awesome but not something supernatural or something like that. 

 You also achieve your goals. 

 The things is having a record increases your confidence. 

**9. It's okay to change**. 

Some goals don't push through. 

I didn't marry the girl I was with when I started blogging. 

I gave it my all. 

I spent several years depressed. 

That's okay. 

I've met people, made friends, picked up new goals, new skills and things to play with. 


**10. Pray about your goals.**
 Many are the plans in a man's heart but it is God who directs his steps. 

 Many goals are big. 

 Sometimes some goals can be bad for us. 

 The things is. 

 If we need help or wisdom. 

 The best place to ask is the creator of the universe who's open to help whenever possible. 

 It's like you're Naruto assisted by the Nine-Tailed Fox. 

**11. Take the smallest step.** 

> Then take another step. If I keep walking without ever stopping, I'll definitely catch up. -Naruto (to Sasuke). 

Achieving goals are not complicated. 

You just write what you want down. 

You write down the step. 

You do the step. 

You mark it on your planner/notebook. 

You do the next step. 

End of story. 

Just do the next thing you need to do any you'll be okay. 

**12. Goals take time.**

Don't insist on shortcuts. 

The guaranteed way to NOT reach your goals is by taking short cuts. 

In a lot of cases, short cuts are just ways for others to take your money. 

You don't need them. 

You need honest hard work. 

Development of skills and confidence to do each of the tasks. 

You also need time. 

Don't rush to your goal. 

Work on your goal. 

Enjoy the work. 

Enjoy the steps. 

Praying for your success.


