--- 
layout: post 
title: Is Your Dream Job Working for a Call Center or BPO?
date: 2018-01-11 07:17
permalink: /dream/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 

Is Your Dream Job Working for a Call Center or BPO?

Aim higher.

There are better jobs.

What most people don't realize is that Call Centers are one of the best jobs that allow you to jump to your dream job.

Call Center jobs are very powerful stepping stones.

When I was starting out, I didn't have the starting resources to go after my dream job, I was advised by my mom to take low paying jobs, 

A friend advised I start in sales because it will teach me basic business and people skills.

The problem with starting there is the first six months to a year or even more pays really low.

You can't buy what you want, and the learning curve and promotion takes a long time.

I started in sales.

My first two sales jobs paid six thousand pesos a month.

The others were commission-based. 

That means no sales, no income.

I ended up borrowing money for expenses.

In a call center you can expect to be more comfortable as you make more progress.

### Questions to Consider:

Does your dream job require a diploma and you didn't finish college?

Use the call center money to save up then pay your tuition.

Can you achieve your dream job by taking short online courses?

Use your call center salary to buy a computer and begin studying from your computer.

Is your dream job a small business owner and you need capital?

Use your call center income to save up.

Do you want to just follow your passion or pursue a hobby?

Just work in a call center and use your rest days to practice your hobby.



**If you're creative you can use call center money to get you the life that you want.**

I've done it. 

I've taught other people to do it.

It takes time.

Lot's of effort.

Shitloads of patience.

But it's worth it.

What's sad is a lot of people are standing still and doing nothing.

If your goal is too big and looks impossible, use whatever tools you have and grab whatever opportunities you can reach so you can move closer to your dream.

That's it.

You don't wish for things to happen. 

You do things to move yourself closer to your goals.

Wishing is only a starting point.

Dreaming is a good start.

Then you wake up and go to work on your goals.

Step by step. 

Small progress.

What's my formula for success?

Here it is. I posted it on my wall.

Consistent, slow, small steps forward.

That's it. 

If something is too fast, maybe someone is trying to sweet talk you into giving them your money.

I have over 100 free lessons on the website.

If you don't know anything about call centers you can read it for free.

I've been writing lessons for over ten years.

You can read the Call Center Lessons for free.

If you want an assisted way to learn you can buy my book and join the online course.

You can get it for a small fee.

The catch is you still need to read the whole book.

The catch is you still need to participate in the writing activities.

Because that's how you learn.

I don't offer certificates, that tells someone that you participated.

I give you lessons that will teach you how to become qualified for the job.

The reading, activities and the coaching will help you and that's how you'll learn.

Just send me a message if you're interested.

