--- 
layout: post 
title: How to Guarantee Success
date: 2018-07-17 16:54
permalink: /small/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
How you do anything is how you do everything.

One of the things that allow me to determine how serious an applicant is at getting hired in a call center is how they do the small things.

Consider this.

You are the owner of the company.

You have a job opening for a call center agent.

Your business involves providing your clients with the best service. When you say best service, you are committed to hiring only the best English speaking agents for your client.

You get an application letter and a resume.

As you read the application letter, you find the following:

There are typing errors.

There are spelling mistakes.

The grammar is wrong.

Is this the work of a professional?

Is this the work of someone that you want to hire?

Think about it for a moment and put yourself in the shoes of the business owner.

Will you hire yourself?

Probably not.

Kevin!

You are so harsh.

The applicant is losing motivation.

Or so you say.

All problems have a solution.

If you discover that you are doing poorly, the solution is to do better.

How will you do better?

1. Check your spelling.
2. Check your sentence if it sounds correct.
3. Ask someone knowledgeable to check.
4. Get someone knowledgeable to coach you.


How you do anything is how you do everything.

This lesson is from the Bible however it applies to business and success.

New International Version
> "Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with much, and whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much.

New Living Translation
> "If you are faithful in little things, you will be faithful in large ones. But if you are dishonest in little things, you won't be honest with greater responsibilities.

If you want a great life.

If you want people to trust you with their money.

If you want to become successful.
  
If you want your family to look up to you.

Be responsible with the small things.