--- 
layout: post 
title: Short Lesson on Trade
date: 2019-07-23 16:10
Tags: [ lessons, blog ]
permalink: /trade/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
If you want fast results, you need to work extra hard.

If you can't work extra hard, you need to be patient.

If you need can't put in the effort and you don't have the time to work, you need to put in the money.

Everything has a trade off.

Here is the formula:

Quality + Speed = Costs Effort

Cheap + Quality = Costs Time

Speed + Quality = Costs Money

## What price are you willing to pay?

# Real examples of Trade-Offs:

- Apple Products cost a lot of money but they have good quality and don't need lots of time to set up.
- Android Phones and Windows Computers are often cheap but require a lot of time to setup because of virus and incomplete programs and unlimited customization options.
- Buying from Reputable car companies may be expensive but you don't need to worry about getting your car fixed every now and then.
- Buying cheap clothes and shoes usually mean you have to buy more often because things break.

## Practical Advice on Trade-Offs

When you are young, and you have no money, you usually pay in energy and time.

As you get older, you discover the value of time, and you have a little more money, you pay in quality

## Filipinos Who Stay Poor Try To Get Away With Not Following These Rules

If you ignore these rules, there are consequences.

Many Filipinos have the mindset... BAKA MAKALUSOT.

Unfortunately, trying this isn't worth it.

Sooner or later you will have to pay.

If you want something with good quality and fast, and you don't want to pay, you are usually tricked by scammers.

Scammers know that this is human nature.

So they offer you products and services that offer fast results and good quality for really cheap.

So the quality is also really cheap.

And you are forced to buy again.

Or give up on your goals.

I guess you can say...

You pay in emotional pain.

And wasted time.

Then you'll pay in wasted money.

Remember the time you bought that Php 100 headset? 

How long did that last?

How about the Php 150 charger?

Didn't that break your phone?

Remember the time you got invited into an MLM/Network Marketing "opportunity"? 

Start a business for cheap? 

Did you make any money?

Remember the time you were offered training for free?

Did they really help you get hired?

Or did they just help the people who are already good at speaking in English?

Everything has a trade-off.

And businesses and people you can trust are upfront with the cost.

The question is...

ARE YOU WILLING TO PAY FOR THE PRICE OF SUCCESS?

Or are you just going to lie to yourself and allow others to lie to you?

## Activity:

On your journal, write down all the times you thought you had a good deal and ended up with a bad deal.

## Question to Ponder:

What purchases do I regret making?

What life decisions do I regret making?

If I can refund/return anything and get my money and time back, what items, services and deals do I want to refund and why?