--- 
layout: post 
title: How to Stop Being a Loser
date: 2019-06-28 22:58
Tags: [ CTA, website ]
permalink: /loser/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
Here are the biggest excuses I encounter.

“I don’t have the time.”⁣
⁣
“I don’t have the money.”⁣
⁣
It’s easy for losers to say that they want what winners have because all they see is the end result.⁣

They don't see the steps.

They don't see the hard work.

They don't see the frustration.

They don't see the problem solving process.

They don't see the rejection.

They don't see the failure.

They don't see the cost.
⁣
But the question is, are you making sacrifices?⁣
⁣
Are you willing to be uncomfortable today and give up the “lifestyle” you have right now in order to have the life that you truly want?

The people who can't sacrifice are the people who work under the people who made several difficult sacrifice.⁣
⁣
If you are faithful with the little things then you can do great things.

Unfortunately, 99% of the people who read this are only looking for shortcuts.

And how you do anything is how you do everything.⁣

You'll look shortcuts everywhere.

And the easiest people to trick, scam and swindle are the people who are looking for shortcuts.

Then you'll keep falling back to zero.

And eventually, you'll get tired.

And give up.

And become a loser for the rest of your life.
⁣
If you want to be successful but you are spending your free time watching TV shows, playing games and wasting time on nonsense, you likely you don’t have time nor the brain power to do anything else.⁣
⁣
If you really want to change your life.

If you sincerely want to take your family out of poverty.

You have to make the sacrifice.

You have to stop going out with your loser friends.

You have to take care of your body.

You have to feed your mind.

You have to be around the right people.

You have to get the right advice.

And make good decisions.

If you change your beliefs, you can change your destiny.

To achieve your goals, you need to do what must be done.

You need to kill all those bad habits.

Ask yourself this question.
⁣
What can you do differently so you can get the life that you want?⁣

Ask yourself every day.

Spend some time every week.

Buy yourself a Starbucks.

Spend some time alone.

And ask yourself this question.

What can I do differently so I can get the life that I want?

Write it at the top of the page.

And don't leave the coffee shop until you have the answer.
⁣
Start making that change today.⁣
⁣
I believe, you can do this.⁣

Change your life today.