--- 
layout: post 
title: Take the Big Five Personality Test
date: 2019-08-10 18:05
Tags: [ activity, blog ]
permalink: /big-five/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
This test helps understand your self.

You can learn about some of your strenghs that will allow you to move forward with your career.

More importantly, you can use the traits for your job application.

You also learn about positive patterns that make you stronger and negative patterns that make you weaker.
 
What is your Personality Type?

Here's a link to my results.

This test measures five basic traits: Agreeableness, Extroversion, Neuroticism, Conscientiousness, and Openness to experience, with each of those traits having two supporting elements.

## What about you?

[CLICK HERE TO TAKE THE BIG 5 PERSONALITY TEST](https://www.truity.com/test/big-five-personality-test).

Write the answer on your journal.

With that in mind, let's begin!

## Exploring Your Strengths

Next.

Do another Google Search.

Ask this question.

## What are positive traits of my dominant personality type?

Select ten positive traits that apply to you and write that down on your journal.

Next question.

## What are the negative traits of my personality type?

Select five negative traits and write those down on your journal.

## Taking Ownership of Your Strengths and Confronting Your Weakness

Go back and review the answers.

Among the ten positive traits that you discovered about yourself, write a short example of why you think that positive trait applies to you.

You can talk about an event where you realized you had this positive trait or somebody else told you that you had this trait. 

Share what happened.

Try to keep your answers within 3-5 sentences.

## Taking ownership of your faults.

Among the five negative traits that you discovered about yourself, write a short example of why you think that negative trait applies to you.

Next.

You can talk about an event where you realized you had this negative trait or somebody else told you that you had this negative trait. 

Share what happened.

Try to keep your answers within 3-5 sentences.

## What are you doing to overcome your weakness?

If you haven't started working on the problem already, what do you think is the best way to overcome that weakness?

## Challenge Activity

If you were giving advice to someone with the same problems and weaknesses, and you will receive Php 50,000 if they overcome that problem, what will you tell them or how will you coach them?