--- 
layout: post 
title: Dream Job Recipe
date: 2019-05-31 11:03
Tags: [ Get Hired In A Call Center, website ]
permalink: /dream-job/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
It takes me sixteen interviews to get the best job offer that I can grab at my skill level.

I taught this to friends and for people who followed it, they have gotten their dream job.

Some of them got their higher-paying work with enviable benefits. 

Here's how it plays out.

The first five companies are usually horrible interviews.

I usually make some stupid mistake or become unable to communicate with confidence.

Maybe I'll say something wrong or stupid on the interview.

The next five companies often have bad offers.

I'll pass the interview because I learned from the first five but the offer is too low or I negotiated poorly or I discover something about the company that I don't like or I don't think I can handle.

I imagine I won't be happy working in those companies so I move on.

The final five interviews usually have good offers.

Sometimes two of those offers are okay and three are really attractive then I pick the best one.

It doesn't always play out with having a great offer by the time I've talked to sixteen companies.

In June 2018, my application was rejected thirty-seven times.

However, company number thirty-four and thirty-five made really good offers and I had the opportunity to work both jobs at the same time.

That has been the best job I've gotten so it's important to stay positive and keep learning and growing and looking for good opportunities.

Expect failure all the time.

Expect failure 99% of the time.

You only need to convince one employer to have a great job opportunity.

Then repeat the process frequently to increase your monthly income.

Don't settle for less.

Work smarter.

Your job is an employment contract.

Don't get married to it.