--- 
layout: post 
title: Common Call Center Jobs: (Customer Service, Sales And Tech Support)
date: 2019-06-08 14:21
Tags: [ uncategorized, website ]
permalink: /cc-jobs/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
There are a lot of different business processes being outsourced in the Philippines. 

Call center companies receive outsourcing requests and projects from multinational companies abroad and from small and medium enterprises.

Locally, call center companies are starting to accept call center projects from local companies and some local companies are now putting up their own internal call centers.

Call Center Jobs are solutions to problems so if you would like to accept a call center job you must first understand that you are providing solutions to a problem. 

At times it will be uncomfortable (at first) or stressful (if you’re not doing it correctly) but that’s why they pay you.

As professionals, we are paid to solve problems. 

What we can do to improve the situation is to try to improve ourselves bit by bit.

### Here’s a shortlist of the most common call center jobs in the Philippines:
[Click Here To Read About TOPIC]()
-   **Customer Service** – Customer service agents often handle service requests, inquiries, follow-ups, complaints, etc.
-   **Technical Support** - Technical support agents (or representatives)often handle troubleshooting, help desk requests that are mostly technical in nature or specific to certain technologies.
-   **Sales Representative** – Sales agents or (representatives)handle the money-making aspect of the business where they offer solutions to clients or prospects in a form of products and services.

I personally believe that it’s a good idea to learn a bit about the three roles because one skill would complement the other. 

I might write about that in the future. 

Remember that these jobs can be both inbound or outbound. 

There are more but these are what we’re going to talk about in detail on the next post. 

What kind of Call Center Job would you want?
