--- 
layout: post 
title: Stay Two Years or Longer
date: 2020-08-08 12:24
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /2yearsup/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
---
Imagine you're a business owner.

You're hiring people for an important job.

The future of your company depends on the people you hire, and that's the reason you are offering a high salary.

The people you hire get paid ₱ 20,000 a month.

You also spend the first three months training your employees to know the basics of how to do the job.

You also coach these employees for six months so they can do the job well.

You also provide other benefits.

You pay for facilities and support employees like trainers and maintenance, so your employee has a comfortable time working for you.

The first employee that you hire tells you that he suddenly has an offer to work abroad.

He leaves after a month. 

You lose ₱ 25,000.

Your second employee tells you that the work is more complicated than he expected and that he'll go back to his lower-paying but less stressful job.

He leaves that same month.

You lose another ₱ 25,000.

Your third employee tells you that her parents want her to stay at home and continue working in the family business.

She leaves in her third month.

You lose another ₱ 75,000.

The fourth employee is a college undergraduate. 

In her fifth month, she tells you that she has enough money to pay for school, and her family recovered from their financial difficulties.

School is about to start again, so she'll quit her job and go back to studying.

You lose about ₱ 130,000 on that kid.

The fifth employee is a single mom.

In her sixth month, you realize that she's late all the time and frequently absent.

When you hired her, she promised you that she'd find and pay someone to take care of her kid.

That never happened.

You have to fire her because of her attendance violations.

You lose another ₱ 150,000.

Learning skills takes time.

It isn't easy to get to a level where you are consistently producing good work.

Companies know that you'll suck in the first three to six months.

They hire you anyway.

They keep you anyway.

That's their investment in you.

They believe in you and entrust the future of their company on your performance.

That being said, many recruiters are careful about hiring applicants.

They are making significant investments, so they have to choose carefully.

### Best Case Scenario - Good investment

If you stay for two years or longer, the company makes a good return on their investment in you.

### Middle Case Scenario - Okay investment

If you stay for a year, the company likely made back their investment and made a little money from your performance.

It's not so good. It's not so bad. It's just okay.

### Worst Case Scenario - Horrible investment

If you leave in under a year, they lose the money invested in teaching and training you.

They don't make any money back.

If you leave early or peroform too poorly that they have to fire you, you are a horrible investment.

Recruiters often look at your past performance to predict your future behavior.

But that's for another lesson.