--- 
layout: post 
title: How I Answer Scale of 1 to 10 Questions
date: 2020-08-28 19:01
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /onetoten/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
You probably got asked this question at one point during an INTERVIEW.

On a SCALE of 1-10 how would you rate your English skills?

Maybe the question is about a different skill. 

There's always a question about how you would rate your skill level at something.

Since you're at an interview, you're not going to give yourself a low score.

Few people would avoid saying 10 to avoid sounding arrogant and proud.

The most common answer is the middle.

I often hear five because that's the exact middle.

I often answer seven because that's the middle for me.

Okay Kevin!

Why is seven the middle for you?

I believe that level five is someone who knows how to do a skill but not very good at the skill.

Five is okay.

Seven is reasonably good.

Seven is someone with more experience and has a fair amount of success.

When people ask me, my default answer is almost always seven.

I see myself as a seven because I still have a long way to go.

I'm working to get to level eight.

When I reach, level eight, I'll work on getting to level nine.

When I'm level nine, I'll spend the rest of my life working to reach level ten.

Thats' my usual answer.

I have an interesting story about that question 

[READ: FULL STORY](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/1to10)

Most of the interview is about you discussing your skill level.

In the next few lessons, I'll share about different ways I communicate my skill level.
