--- 
layout: post 
title: Call Center Companies Reject Weak Applicants
date: 2020-06-17 11:21
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /rejected/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
I got this message from a reader.

> Call center companies accept applicants with low educational attainment but reject people for having poor English skills. Even some college graduates do not have perfect English. This is discrimination. - Anonymous Reader

I apologize because this is going to sound really offensive.

International call center companies are supposed to reject you if you have bad English.

Before high-speed internet became available globally, call center work was just local.

If you wanted to work in a call center, your only options twenty years ago were: 

- PLDT 
- Globe Telecom 
- Smart Communications
- Sky Cable 
- Jollibee delivery
- and other local companies.

## What does a call center agent do?

Most call center agents are company front-liners who perform customer service, tech support, and sales work.

You answer the phone and talk to customers.

You listen to the customers and document their situation on your computer.

You assist the customers with their concerns.

## What is an international call center company?

When you apply for international call center companies, you are applying for American jobs at American companies.

AT&T, Verizon, and Sprint are American Telecom Companies similar to PLDT and Globe Telecom.

Comcast and Direct TV are American Entertainment Companies similar to SkyCable.

Amazon is an American online seller similar to Lazada and Shopee.

Citibank and HSBC serve American customers.

For a lot of international call center jobs, American operations get assigned to call center companies located in the Philippines.

If you get hired in an international call center company, you are likely going to serve American companies.

That's the main reason why the salary in an international call center is higher than what's offered at most Filipino entry-level jobs.

## What Are The Requirements for International Call Center Jobs?

If you apply for an international company, you need to qualify for international standards.

That means excellent English communication skills are a minimum requirement.

You need to become comfortable with computer operation and internet research.

Your IQ needs to be high enough to solve simple problems.

Your attitude is good enough to be both professional customer service oriented.

## Summary

You will be working for American companies and serving American customers.

If you want to succeed, you need to abandon this "entitled" attitude.

Practice and make yourself a better person to hire.

Aim to become a better person.

That's the only way you'll genuinely become proud of yourself.