--- 
layout: post 
title: Level Ten Customer Service
date: 2020-06-01 20:32
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /l10/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
I'm a level ten customer service representative.

I tell my customers things that I came up with that's not on the script.

A common concern that I receive is:

The customer was speaking to a representative from the Philippines or India who doesn't know what they're doing.

Often, the customer ends the story with how frustrated they are or how the line got disconnected.

I just tell the customer.

Wow.

I'm sorry you experienced that issue.

It sounds like you were speaking to a trainee or a new representative.

But don't worry.

You've reached a level ten representative.

I'll be able to assist you with this issue.

This doesn't happen very often.

I encounter this situation maybe once a day or every other day.

Usually, I just inform the customer that I'm senior or something.

I also ask for their callback number in case we get disconnected so I'm able to call them back.

But the company I worked for offered to pay us an extra $80 a month for a perfect customer service score.

I'm thinking of how I can personalize my call to reassure my customer further.

They need to trust me and they need to comply with my instructions so I can fix their problem.

So I came up with the level ten representative spiel.

It's just a few lines and doesn't negatively impact my AHT.

I may use some time to deliver those lines but the fact that the possibility that customer will comply and cooperate with me is worth delivering those extra lines.

It's just a way of acknowledging that the previous representative they're speaking to didn't know what they're doing without directly telling them that.

We're not allowed to say bad things about the company and other agents.

The message is, don't worry, you were probably talking to a new trainee and now you're speaking to someone with more experience and more solutions.

One day, my team leader was walking through the production floor with his boss, the assistant operations manager.

They both herd me tell the customer "don't worry, you've reached a level ten representative."

Level ten? 

Has Kevin been promoted to level ten? 

The boss asked my team leader.

Hey Kevin! What's level ten?

My team leader asked me.

I said, wait, client agreed to do a survey and I need to take care of the issue.

I'm about to take my lunch after this call.

I'll get back to you.

Prior to that inquiry, I didn't really think about what level ten means.

I just know that I can handle more issues than the average representative in our company.

I've made lists of instructions on my notebook of difficult and complex issues that I can support and tasks that I can process.

Many of the tasks that I can do can not be done by most new agents.

I looked back at some of the instructions and made a list of tasks I can handle.

After looking at the list, I'm surprised and a little relieved that I have ten items on the list.

So after I solved the issue, I logged out and had my lunch.

On my way back, I bumped into my team leader and his boss with a big smile on my face.

I shared my list with them.

My reason why I'm a level ten representative.

Here's the list that I came up with.

I can handle internet tech support.

I can handle phone tech support.

I can handle Wifi tech support.

I can handle email tech support.

I can handle service truck scheduling.

I can handle account activation.

I can handle billing concerns and reconnection.

I can deescalate customer retention calls and customers looking for a supervisor or American agents.

I can handle sales and upgrade offers.

I can handle special service requests.

When I'm done, they both started laughing.

Okay, I get it.

Level ten, huh?

Fine then.

The boss was still smiling, he rang a bell and announced to the production floor.

One 100 for Happy Bear!!! Our level ten agent!!!

I heard some people clapping and some of my friends booing.

Getting a perfect score has been, difficult for many of my coworkers and I'm one of the few people who were able to consistently accomplish this.

The customer I was speaking to did answer the survey.

She gave me a perfect score.

And that's the story of how I became a level ten customer service representative.