--- 
layout: post 
title: Take the Big Five Personality Test
date: 2021-03-24 18:05
Tags: [ activity, blog ]
permalink: /big5/
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
This test helps understand your self and your personality.

You can learn about some of your strengths that will allow you to move forward with your career.

More importantly, you can use the traits for your job application.

You also learn about positive patterns that make you stronger and negative patterns that make you weaker.
 
Please take the test and make a note of your results.

Openness. 

Conscientiousness.

Extraversion.

Agreeableness.

Neuroticism.

[Here's a link to my results](https://kevinolega.com/big5/).

This test measures five basic traits: Agreeableness, Extroversion, Neuroticism, Conscientiousness, and Openness to experience, with each of those traits having two supporting elements.

## What about you?

[CLICK HERE TO TAKE THE BIG 5 PERSONALITY TEST](https://www.truity.com/test/big-five-personality-test).

You may take the [paid version of the test here](https://www.understandmyself.com/).

Write the answer on your journal.

Send me your scores if you're enrolled in my training program.

The test results may help you come up with answers to the strengths and weakness questions.

High scores and low scores for each trait comes with both advantages and disadvantages.

Asking good questions about your scores can help you form a better plan for your life.

Here are sample questions that you can research.

What are the advantages of high neuroticism?

What can you do to improve low conscientiousness?

What are the disadvantages of high agreeableness?

## ACTIVITY

1. What are your scores?
2. Talk about high, low, or average scores of each trait.
3. What are the advantages that you discovered?
4. What are the disadvantages that you discovered?
5. How do you feel after finding out about your score?
6. Do you agree with your results? Why or why not?
7. What traits would you like to change?
8. What traits would you like to stay the same?
9. What trait or traits if developed would be the main reason why you would become successful?
10. What trait or traits if left alone would be the main reason why you would become a failure?

If you'd like to go in depth you may do the next activity.

Please include the questions when answering this activity.

## EXPLORING YOUR STRENGTHS

NOTE: Please skip this activity.

We'll ask you to do this during week 6.

Only do this activity after you reached week 6.

[Click here to proceed to the next activity](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/big-five/).