--- 
layout: post 
title: CALL CENTER AGENTS NEED TO GROW UP
date: 2021-02-18 00:26
Tags: [ referral, blog ]
permalink: /growupk/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
As call center agents we need to think intelligently about how we approach our career. 

When we're young, we feel that our money will last forever. 

We sometimes feel that we're invincible. 

Many call center agents refer to themselves as "immortal." 

That's not the case. 

Call center work is not the finish line. 

Call center work is the starting line. 

Candice is one of the few people who successfully used their call center career as a stepping stone to bigger things. 

27k isn't a lot of money. 

If you bought a computer, gotten internet connected at home, and learned new skills while working in a call center for a few years, you can start a new career as a freelancer, start selling goods or services online.

Candice is an awesome inspiration.

Maybe you want to work in a gym as a fitness or martial arts instructor.

Maybe you want to start a small services company.

Maybe you want to become an online freelancer.

Maybe you want to own a small school.

Take care of your health.

Take care of your career.

Don't scroll social media, watch videos or play games all the time.

Learn new skills.

Learn how to cook.

Collect all the necessary adulting skills.

Write a plan for your life and share it with your partner and family.

Slowly build toward your plan.

Don't invest in anything risky.

As Candice said, invest in yourself first.

You're an adult now.

Stop behaving like a teenager.

Subscribe to Kwestyon.

Hit notifications.

Watch all her videos.

[LINK TO VIDEO](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3UXbFJ9s0xE)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3UXbFJ9s0xE" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>