--- 
layout: post 
title: Finding the Good
date: 2018-01-19 09:38
permalink: /finding-good/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 

Finding the good is an important skill that's missing from a lot of aspiring Call Center Agents.

In fact, it's the main reason why I failed my application at Teleperformance.

The American interviewer asked me to describe the Philippines, the first images that came to my mind are: Traffic, Squatters, people who will rob you and don't go here. 

Obviously, I didn't say that but I couldn't say anything good in that part of the interview and as a result I failed.

Later that day, I asked one of the vice presidents of an international bank and the coach in the seminar I was attending.

The Philippines is the HUB of Asia.

It's an emerging economy with a developing market.

It's a famous travel destination.

The cost of labor and the cost of living is really cheap here compared to many countries.

The people are extremely helpful and friendly.

The Filipinos have a rich culture that is focused on family and cooperation.

They went on and on.

Any of those would have been great answers.

I couldn't think of anything.

Why is that?

At the time, I saw my Dad as the asshole who abandoned me.

I'm 32 now and I still kind of see my dad as an asshole but I'm also now aware that my dad cares for me and he's just strict because he came from a hardcore military-like background that's why it can be difficult for him to communicate to his family and we're good now.

Finding the good enables you to see the opportunity in the difficulty.

Finding the good enables you to take advantage of assets.

Finding the good lets you spot the stepping stones instead of the stumbling blocks.

Finding the good is a skill you need to practice.

Every weekend, just write down in your notebook, everything good that happened this week.

Start from Monday.

Then Tuesday.

Then Wednesday.

Then Thursday.

Then Friday.

Add a space for Saturday and Sunday.

Then fill at least three lines. 

If you can't think of any here are places to look:

1. Find the good in your situation.
2. Find the good in your self.
3. Find the good in other people.
4. Find the good in what you have.
5. Find the good in what you can do.
6. Find the good in anything you considered bad initially.

Finding the good is a practice that had helped me get jobs.

Finding the good has helped me get promoted.

Finding the good has opened opportunities in my life.

If you consider yourself religious, this practice is called "Counting Your Blessings" and people who count their blessings are people who win based on my experience.

If you do this activity every day for ninety days, I promise it will change your life.

If you did this, please send me a message.
