--- 
layout: post 
title: Call Center Income Gave Me Freedom
date: 2020-09-21 16:54
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /3h/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
What do you wish you knew before you started working in a call center.

I have a sales background.

For a long time, I believed that sales careers are the only wat to become financially successful. 

I got invited to many opportunities to sell expensive items that will allow me to earn more money.

If I made frequent big sales, I could become wealthy.

I was also in a difficult spot to sell.

I was young, stupid, undisciplined, and irresponsible.

With that combination, I couldn't sell consistently enough to earn a steady income.

I considered removing sales activities from my life and earn a steady paycheck for a change.

I tried working for a call center.

If I work for a call center, I can earn anywhere from ₱18,000 to ₱25,000 a month.

I realized that if I perform well at call center work, I'll keep that steady income.

I can save enough money to buy a laptop.

I can get a credit card.

I can get an internet connection at home.

I can also build up savings to protect myself from emergencies.

When I get my laptop and my target savings, I can begin my project of working from home.

Working from home allows me the ability to work from anywhere.

When you can work from anywhere, you can manipulate the value of the money that you're earning. 

For example:

Let's say I'm earning ₱ 25,000 a month.

That's approximately ₱150 an hour.

I live in Parañaque.

I previously worked in Makati.

I spent ₱150 a day on my transportation.

The travel time required is three hours.

Three hours a day is sixty hours at the end of the month.

The company that I work for allows us to extend our hours and work overtime.

Potentially, if I wanted to, I can work overtime.

If I sit at work for three more hours, I'll earn ₱450 a day.

If you combine the ₱450 a day lost and the ₱150 daily transportation, I'm losing ₱600 a day.

₱600 a day is ₱12,000 a month.

So if I'm earning ₱25,000 a month, my real take-home income is ₱13,000.

If I took a minimum wage job that's walking distance from my home and has a fixed nine-hour schedule, I'll be in a much better position than ₱25,000 a month.

I also get to keep my sixty hours at the end of the month.

If I wanted to take a job that pays ₱150 to ₱200 an hour, that would convert my spare time to cash.

If I wanted to sell and earn more money, I could do that too.

I can study to qualify for higher-paying jobs.

I can sell to earn money.

I can both learn new skills and sell.

I no longer needed to pay a sixty-hour monthly commute penalty.

At that moment, I realized that my dream income is within my reach.

It all started with computing my call center income and travel time.