--- 
layout: post 
title: Call Center Exams
date: 2021-03-04 14:15
Tags: [ lists, collections, blog ]
permalink: /call-center-exams/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
Let's talk about the tests you'll encounter when you try to get hired in a call center.

### What you need to know about call center tests

Here's a summary of what we'll talk about:

- What are the different kinds of test that you'll encounter in a call center?
- What are the common problems when you take tests?
- What are the solutions.
- List of common call center tests
- Links to sample call center tests

## Common Call Center Tests

Here's the different kinds of call center tests: 

1. Basic English Tests
2. Basic Math Tests
3. IQ Test
4. Typing Tests
5. Customer Service Tests
6. Sales Test
7. Technical Support Test
8. Basic Network and Computer Operations Test
9. Personality and Job and Culture Fit Test

## What to Expect in a Call Center Test

Call Center exams are easy. 

Many call center exams are computer based.

Sometimes, the call center recuriter hands me a written exam.

The call center exams test you in several basic competencies.

Call center exams are so easy, I don't talk about it in detail.

I'm confident that you'll pass.

Here are examples of Call Center Exams:

### Common problems

1. Did not read the instructions carefully.
2. Not listening to the interviewer.
3. Memorized interview answers.

### Common solutions

1. Read the instructions carefully.
2. Slow down and answer one by one.
3. Become comfortable expressing yourself.
4. Practice writing about your experience.
5. Practice sharing stories about your experience from work and school.

### Basic English Tests

**WHAT TO EXPECT:**

- Reading and Comprehension
- Simple vocabulary
- Simple Grammar test
	- Select the correct word
	- Select the wrong word
	- Complete the sentence
- Pronunciation test
	- Common English words
	- Basic Business English
	- Basic Computer Words
- Listening tests

I've encountered a reading and comprehension test.

You'll read a short story and answer questions based on what you've read.

I've encountered simple grammar tests.

You'll need to select the correct word to complete the sentence.

You'll sometimes need to write the correct word to complete the sentence.

You'll need to select and remove the incorrect words to complete the sentence.

You'll need to arrange words to complete a sentence.

I recommend writing to further incorporate your grammar knowledge and as a result you know the answers intuitively.

I can't recall grammar rules most of the time but I have successfully scored high enough to pass the call center English tests.

Please practice writing to improve your English.

This is a simple grammar test.

Take this and send me your scores.

[Take this Grammar Test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/grammar-test/)

[Take this Listening Test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/listening-test/)

Take this quiz and tell me your score.

[Take This Simple Business English Quiz](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/bizeng-quiz/)

[Take The Business English Test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/bizeng-test/)

### Basic Math

**WHAT TO EXPECT:**

- Basic addition
- Basic subtraction
- Basic Multiplication
- Basic Division
- Basic Problem Solving

Basic math tests are addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.

More advance math tests include percentages, fractions, and some problem solving.

How to Solve Problems:

1. Write down the given.
2. Decide on the formula that you'll use.
3. Solve the problem by:
	- Separating the elements of the problem.
	- Organizing the elements into the correct sequence.
	- Simplifying the complex elements.
	- Perform basic arithmetic to solve the remaining elements of the problem.
4. Write your answer.

I don't recall many difficult math problems.	 

I find percentages and fractions challenging but I haven't failed exams for missing the answers in percentages and fractions.

### IQ Test

Intelligence is a key trait in many complex jobs.

There's a minimum level of intelligence required for call center work.

Here's a link to help you prepare for an IQ test.

[Take This IQ Test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/iq-test)

### Read Instructions Carefully

Sometimes you're asked to encircle, share, or write the letter of your answer.

Not following instructions is the main reason why a person gets eliminated from call center exams.

Half of the people that I've met usually fail call center exams because they didn't follow instructions.

## Typing Test

Typing speed is one of the basic tests in a call center. 

Many call centers allow you to pass with a 20-30wpm (words per minute) typing speed. 

Non-voice accounts require a higher typing speed. 

However it's always good to improve your typing speed because the faster you are at working the easier your job will be.

[Click here to take a free typing test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/typing-test/).

## Customer Service Tests

[Customer Service Test Link](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/customer-service-test/).

## Personality Tests

Here are three of the most popular personality tests that companies use to determine your job fit.

[Click here to take the BIG 5 personality test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/big-five/)

[Click here to take the BIG 5 personality test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/16personality/)

[Click here to take the DISC personality test](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/disc/)

Many of these call center tests are grade-school level tests.

Taking these call center exams requires reading, concenteration, and a little common sense.

Ocassionally, you'll encounter difficult tests but that doesn't happen very often.

You don't need to worry about call center exams.

Take the exams on this page to prove that you can do it.

For updated links to the exams, please visit:

[https://callcentertrainingtips.com/call-center-exams](https://callcentertrainingtips.com/call-center-exams)