--- 
layout: post 
title: Level 2 Computer Skills 
date: 2019-08-31 11:21
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /comp102/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
Here are more computer skills.

## Find something on Google Maps

If you don't know the location of a place, try too locate it on Google maps.

1. Do a seach on maps.google.com
2. Download the Google Maps on your iPhone. Android usually has Google Maps pre-installed.
3. Locate the location on the maps.

## Internet Research.

When I don't know what a word means, I go to Google and ask what a word means.

## Use Email to Communicate.

Send a thank you email to people who taught you something.

Here's a sample.

> Hi NAME,

> I just wanted to drop a line to thank you for spending the time to teach me SPECIFIC SKILL/LESSON.

> What you taught me gave me a lot to think about and it helped me ACHIEVE A SPECIFIC BENEFIT OR RESULT.

> I hope everything is great with you on your end.

> Thanks.

> MY NAME

## Find a word or phrase on a webpage. 

When you're on a browser hit Ctrl+F

## Find other similar words to use.

1. Go to Google.com
2. Type in the word you want to replace.
3. Add the word "synonym"
4. Hit search.
5. Review the words and pick the best one.

## Learn the pronunciation of any word.

1. Go to Google.com
2. Type the words "how to pronounce"
3. Add the word that you'd like to learn how to pronounce.
4. Hit the sound or speaker icon to listen to the pronunciation.
5. Listen.
6. Repeat until you can speak the word. 

## Use Google Translate to Improve Your English

1. Go to translate.google.com
2. Type the tagalog sentence that you want to translate.
3. Review the translation. Make sure the translation is set from Tagalog/Filipino to English.
4. Hit the sound or speaker icon to listen to the translation.
5. Listen to the translation as many times as you need.
6. Speak the translation and see if you pronounced the words properly.
