--- 
layout: post 
title: Law of the Seed
date: 2020-06-11 08:52
Tags: [ uncategorized, blog ]
permalink: /lawoftheseed/ 
author: Kevin Olega 
--- 
I learned about this principle when I was eleven years old.

And I didn't pay attention to this until I'm 34 years old.

Our family got our first computer and internet connection in 1998.

In 2020, people shared their thoughts and inspirational messages on social media.

Back in 1998, these ideas were shared through email.

At that time, we don't have unlimited internet, so many people developed the habit of printing their interesting emails and sharing the printouts to their friends and families.

The ones I kept in my room contained jokes shared by my mom and my uncle.

Every now and then, between the printed jokes and messages from our family members abroad and the song lyrics that I asked my uncle to print for me, I'd find inspirational messages.

One inspirational message that our family received was the law of the seed.

I didn't understand this law of the seed at the time, so I asked my mom to read this to me.

She couldn't explain to me very well, and the best she could do was read it to me with emphasis on the important details.

And for some reason, this lesson stayed with me and influenced my attitude even if I totally forgot about it.

If memory serves me well, I believe I also heard a priest share this during a mass that I attended when I was younger.

I did some research, and I found someone who reposted this viral email on their SlideShare and a couple of people who shared this on their blog in 2009 I don't think those are the original source because I first read this in 1998.

If you have found the author of the law of the seed, please let me know so I may credit the post properly.

I made some grammar and punctuation edits before reposting on my page.

This message had made a big impact on my attitude.

I'm not 100% affected by my fear of rejection and failure, and because of that, I was able to move forward when things weren't going well.

If things didn't work out, one thought that often came into my mind, okay more seeds.

## The Law of the Seed

This is an excellent piece of thought.

Take a look at an apple tree. 

There might be five hundred apples on the tree, and each apple has ten seeds. 

That's a lot of seeds!

We might ask, "Why would you need so many seeds to grow just a few more apple trees?"

Nature has something to teach us here.

It's telling us: 

Not all seeds grow. 

In life, most seeds never grow.

So if you really want to make something happen, you had better try more than once."

This might mean: 

You'll attend twenty interviews to get one job. 

You'll interview forty people to find one good employee.

You'll talk to fifty people to sell one house, one car, one vacuum cleaner, one insurance policy, or a business idea.

And you might meet a hundred acquaintances just to find one special friend.

When we understand the "Law of the Seed," we don't get so disappointed.

### The Law of the Seed can be found in the Bible:

> Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously. 
> 
> Each of you should give what you have decided in your heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. 
> 
> And God is able to bless you abundantly, so that in all things at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work. 
> 2 Corinthians 9:6-15

When you understand the law of the seed...

We stop feeling like victims.

We learn how to deal with things that happen to us.

Laws of nature are not things to take personally. 

We just need to understand the laws of nature and work with them.

IN A NUTSHELL, Successful people fail more often, and they plant more seeds.

When things are beyond your control, here's something that you must NOT DO to avoid misery in your life:

- You must not decide how you think the world SHOULD be.
- You must not make rules for how everyone SHOULD behave.
- Then, when the world doesn't obey your rules, you get angry!
- That's what miserable people do!

On the other hand, let's say you expect that: 
- Friends SHOULD return favors. 
- People SHOULD appreciate you.
- Your husband or best friend SHOULD remember your birthday.

These expectations may sound reasonable. 

But often, these things won't happen!

So you end up frustrated and disappointed.

There's a better strategy: Demand less, and instead, have preferences!

For things that are beyond your control, tell yourself:

"I would prefer this, but if that happens, it's OK too!"

This is really a change in mindset. 

It is a shift in attitude, and it gives you more peace of mind ...

You prefer that people are polite ... but when they are rude, it doesn't ruin your day. 

You prefer sunshine ... but if it rains, it is ok too!

To become happier, we either need to: 

- Change the world, or... 
- Change our thinking. 

It is easier to change our Thinking!

### IN CLOSING: 

It is not the problem; that is the issue, but rather it is your attitude attending to the problem that is the problem.

It's not what happens to you that determines your happiness. 

It's how you think about what happens to you!


## Activity:

Read this aloud for pronunciation practice.
Write down a story about a time in your life where you failed because you broke the law of the seed.
Write down a story about a time in your life where you achieved success because you followed the law of the seed.